project.md, before:

# Project 9 - Continuous Integration Pipeline For Tooling Website

**Step 1 - Install Jenkins Server**
---

- Spin up a new Ubuntu server for Jenkins and enable port 8080 for communication. Run `sudo apt update` & `sudo apt upgrade`.

- Run the command below:
```
sudo apt install default-jdk-headless
wget -q -O - https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable/jenkins.io.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable binary/ > \
/etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list'
sudo apt update -y
sudo apt-get install jenkins
```

- Run `sudo systemctl status jenkins` to confirm Jenkins is running.

- Log into Jenkins by putting in http://<Jenkins-Server-Public-IP-Address-or-Public-DNS-Name>:8080 to initiate the setup.

- Upon reaching Jenkins, you would be asked to put in the administrator password. This can be found by running `sudo cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword`. Copy and paste it in the box.
![Jenkins Startpage](unlock_jenkins.png)

- Next, install suggested plugins to install the basic plugins necessary for Jenkins.
![Jenkins Plugins](jenkins_plugins.png)

- Once plugins installation is done, create an admin user and you will get your Jenkins server address.

**Step 2 - Configure Jenkins To Retrieve Source Codes From GitHub Using Webhooks**
---

- Go to the tooling repo on GitHub (or repo in question), then go to settings and click on webhook. The payload IP is `http://Jenkins-Server-Public-Server-IP:8080/github-webhook/`. The content type should be set to `application/json`.

- Go to the Jenkins home page ad click on new projects. Give the projet a name and select freestyle project.

- Copy the URL of the repo as that will be used to link Jenkins to the repo and work with it. After copying th URL, in the config setup of the Jenkins project, head over to source code management and  choose Git.
![Source code management](codemgt.png)

- Select credentials and input your GitHub credentials so Jenkins can have access to read activitie from the cloud repo.

- Save configuration and click on build now, which should build successfully with a green tick. This is a test to see if the connection is set up correctly.

- Click configure on the job/project and add the following configs:

    - GitScm Polling

    ![GitScm](buildtrigger.png)

    - Configure Post build actions to "archive the artifacts" and set it to ** for all files.

    ![Archive files](filestoarchive.png)

- Make a change to the README file in your GitHub repo and a new build should run on Jenkins. The artifacts are stored on Jenkins locally in this folder `/var/lib/jenkins/jobs/<nameofrepo>/builds/<build_number>/archive/`

**Step 3 – Configure Jenkins To Copy Files To NFS Server Via SSH**
---

- Now that we have our artifacts saved locally on our Jenkins server, the next step is to copy them to our NFS server to the `/mnt/apps`folder. For this we need to install the `Publish over SSH` plugin.

- On main dashboard select "Manage Jenkins" and choose "Configure System" and scroll to the Publish over SSH plugin to configure it. Provide the following:

    - Passphrase (if set up)

    - Key (vi into the .pem file and grab the contents to paste)

    - Name (any you prefer)

    - Hostname (private IP of NFS server)

    - Username (ec2-user since the instance is RHEL based)

    - Remote directory (/mnt/apps since our Web Servers use it as a mointing point to retrieve files from the NFS server)

    ![SSH Plugin setup](sshpublish.png)

    ![SSH Plugin Server setup](sshpublishserver.png)

    - Click on "Test" to test the connection b/w Jenkins and the NFS server. Remember that SSH port 22 must be enabled on the NFS server.

- Open the Jenkins project configuration page and add another `Post build action` called `send build artifacts over SSH`. See config below for setup:

![SSH setup1](filestoarchive.png)

![SSH setup2](sendoverssh.png)

- After setting up the above, change something in the README.md of the GitHub repo and a new build will be triggered in Jenkins.

    - I kept running into a permissions error on Jenkins saying it is unable to move into the designated folder. This resulted into some unstable builds. Had to modify the permissions & ownership in `/mnt/apps` to 777 and nobody before it ran successfully.

    ![Permission & Ownership modification](chownchmod.png)

![Successful Build](buildlist.png)

- To confirm if the files in `/mnt/apps` were successfully updated, log into the NFS server and run `cat /mnt/apps/README.md` or `ls /mnt/apps/README.md`

![Confirm if files updated](mntapps.png)

**Project 9 Deployed Successfully!**

Commit message:

Updated project with new jenkins ssh error and fix

project.md, after:

# Project 9 - Continuous Integration Pipeline For Tooling Website

**Step 1 - Install Jenkins Server**
---

- Spin up a new Ubuntu server for Jenkins and enable port 8080 for communication. Run `sudo apt update` & `sudo apt upgrade`.

- Run the command below:
```
sudo apt install default-jdk-headless
wget -q -O - https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable/jenkins.io.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable binary/ > \
/etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list'
sudo apt update -y
sudo apt-get install jenkins
```

- Run `sudo systemctl status jenkins` to confirm Jenkins is running.

- Log into Jenkins by putting in http://<Jenkins-Server-Public-IP-Address-or-Public-DNS-Name>:8080 to initiate the setup.

- Upon reaching Jenkins, you would be asked to put in the administrator password. This can be found by running `sudo cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword`. Copy and paste it in the box.
![Jenkins Startpage](unlock_jenkins.png)

- Next, install suggested plugins to install the basic plugins necessary for Jenkins.
![Jenkins Plugins](jenkins_plugins.png)

- Once plugins installation is done, create an admin user and you will get your Jenkins server address.

**Step 2 - Configure Jenkins To Retrieve Source Codes From GitHub Using Webhooks**
---

- Go to the tooling repo on GitHub (or repo in question), then go to settings and click on webhook. The payload IP is `http://Jenkins-Server-Public-Server-IP:8080/github-webhook/`. The content type should be set to `application/json`.

- Go to the Jenkins home page ad click on new projects. Give the projet a name and select freestyle project.

- Copy the URL of the repo as that will be used to link Jenkins to the repo and work with it. After copying th URL, in the config setup of the Jenkins project, head over to source code management and  choose Git.
![Source code management](codemgt.png)

- Select credentials and input your GitHub credentials so Jenkins can have access to read activitie from the cloud repo.

- Save configuration and click on build now, which should build successfully with a green tick. This is a test to see if the connection is set up correctly.

- Click configure on the job/project and add the following configs:

    - GitScm Polling

    ![GitScm](buildtrigger.png)

    - Configure Post build actions to "archive the artifacts" and set it to ** for all files.

    ![Archive files](filestoarchive.png)

- Make a change to the README file in your GitHub repo and a new build should run on Jenkins. The artifacts are stored on Jenkins locally in this folder `/var/lib/jenkins/jobs/<nameofrepo>/builds/<build_number>/archive/`

**Step 3 – Configure Jenkins To Copy Files To NFS Server Via SSH**
---

- Now that we have our artifacts saved locally on our Jenkins server, the next step is to copy them to our NFS server to the `/mnt/apps`folder. For this we need to install the `Publish over SSH` plugin.

- On main dashboard select "Manage Jenkins" and choose "Configure System" and scroll to the Publish over SSH plugin to configure it. Provide the following:

    - Passphrase (if set up)

    - Key (vi into the .pem file and grab the contents to paste)

    - Name (any you prefer)

    - Hostname (private IP of NFS server)

    - Username (ec2-user since the instance is RHEL based)

    - Remote directory (/mnt/apps since our Web Servers use it as a mointing point to retrieve files from the NFS server)

    ![SSH Plugin setup](sshpublish.png)

    ![SSH Plugin Server setup](sshpublishserver.png)

    - Click on "Test" to test the connection b/w Jenkins and the NFS server. Remember that SSH port 22 must be enabled on the NFS server.
    
    - I recently started running into an error with Jenkins where I was unable to Publish over SSH. Apparently, it is a known issue with the RHEL server I used (RHEL 9). There are 2 known workarounds which are: `Using an older RHEL (probably 8 or something) or generating an id_ecdsa certificate (which I used). See screenshots below:
    
    ![Jenkins SSH Error](jenkins-error.png)
    
    ![Jenkins SSH Resolution](jenkins-solution.png)

- Open the Jenkins project configuration page and add another `Post build action` called `send build artifacts over SSH`. See config below for setup:

![SSH setup1](filestoarchive.png)

![SSH setup2](sendoverssh.png)

- After setting up the above, change something in the README.md of the GitHub repo and a new build will be triggered in Jenkins.

    - I kept running into a permissions error on Jenkins saying it is unable to move into the designated folder. This resulted into some unstable builds. Had to modify the permissions & ownership in `/mnt/apps` to 777 and nobody before it ran successfully.

    ![Permission & Ownership modification](chownchmod.png)

![Successful Build](buildlist.png)

- To confirm if the files in `/mnt/apps` were successfully updated, log into the NFS server and run `cat /mnt/apps/README.md` or `ls /mnt/apps/README.md`

![Confirm if files updated](mntapps.png)

**Project 9 Deployed Successfully!**
